ALL ABOUT

AMNIOTIC FLUID

Amniotic fluid is the liquid that surrounds a baby in
the uterus during pregnancy. It has many purposes
and it plays a large role in a baby’s development.

FUNCTIONS OF AMNIOTIC FLUID

Acts as a cushion for baby
Prevents the umbilical cord
from becoming compressed
Keeps baby’s temperature
stable

e Aids in baby lung development
Aids in muscle and bone
development by allowing the
baby to move around

WHERE DOES IT COME FROM?

In early pregnancy, the fluid is mostly water that
comes from the mother’s body. About halfway through
the pregnancy, the baby’s urine begins to make up
most of the fluid.

HOW MUCH FLUID SHOULD THERE BE?

The amount of fluid increases till about 36 weeks of
pregnancy, then it starts to decrease. The amount
depends on each person and the pregnancy. There are
some cases where there can be too little or too much
amniotic fluid, which is known as oligohydramnios and
polyhydramnios, respectively.

WHAT COLOR SHOULD IT BE?

Normal amniotic fluid is clear or straw-colored. Fluid
that is tinted green or brown may indicate a bowel
movement in the womb. This can lead to a
complication called meconium aspiration syndrome.

CONTACT YOUR
PROVIDER WITH ANY

OTHER QUESTIONS OR
CONCERNS


AMNIOTIC FLUID

COMPLICATIONS

Amniotic fluid can be assessed using an ultrasound.
A professional will be able to measure how much
fluid is present in the amniotic sac.

If there is too little or too much amniotic fluid, some
complications can occur. This is known as
oligohydramnios when there is too little and
polyhydramnios when there is too much.
Anhydramnios is the term for when there is no

amniotic fluid detected.

OLIGOHYDRAMNIOS

If there is low fluid, this can indicate
e Water breaking
e Intrauterine growth restriction
e Baby has kidney or urinary issues
e Placental abruption
e Mom has chronic high blood pressure

Since this fluid is necessary for lung development, it
is important to have a normal volume. The treatment
is an amnio infusion, which involves using a needle to
fill the sac with saline.

POLYHYDRAMNIOS

Too much fluid can cause the uterus to become
overdistended and this may lead to preterm labor or
premature rupture of membranes. Most of these cases
are mild, but in severe cases, it can cause shortness of
breath and swelling in the mother. The baby may be at
risk of cord prolapse, placental abruption, and
premature birth.

This can be caused by
e Rhincompatibility
e Fetal anemia
e Maternal diabetes
e Genetic conditions

In severe cases, this can be resolved by treating the
underlying issue, draining the fluid in a process called
amniocentesis, or using an oral medication.

