Anlidepreppante
and Pregnancy.

Depression is a condition that affects millions of women across
the country. Antidepressants have made such a positive

difference in the lives of many of these women, but are they safe
to use during pregnancy? Read below for more information.

fntidepregpante and p-aby

It had been previously thought that antidepressants cause birth defects,
but more recent studies show that they do not. However, they can affect

the baby in a different way. They can cause the baby to adapt to the
medications, resulting in irritability and respiratory issues after birth. This
can be distressing initially, but the symptoms will eventually disappear.

Should the medications he lopped?

You will need to personally weigh the risks and benefits that come with
stopping antidepressant medication. If you have mild depression, you may
be able to stop the medication and start therapy as a coping mechanism.
However, stopping antidepressants while suffering from severe depression
may be more harmful. Extreme depression may lead to neglecting
prenatal or personal care, which is not beneficial for anyone involved.

Type of Alidepreseante

Some common types of antidepressants include Selective Serotonin
Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs), Paroxetine, Benzodiazepines, and Valproic.
Acid. Talk to your provider about the risks that come with each.

Will they. CaUupe a migcarriage?
This is another common misconception, but most studies have shown that
antidepressants do not significantly increase the risk of miscarriage. In

fact, a woman was more likely to experience miscarriage during severe
depressive episodes compared to while on antidepressants.

Conpull Your Provider

Your provider will be able to help you weigh the risks and benefits of your
particular case. They can give you more information about the impact that
your prescribed medication can have on your baby, and they can help you
create a plan that is best for your situation.

Contact your provider with questions or concerns.
