Baby Eezema

WHAT IS BABY ECZEMA?

Eczema, also called atopic dermatitis, is a skin condition that can occur when
the skin is missing filaggrin, a protein that helps retain moisture and protect
against bacteria. Without enough filaggrin, the skin can become dry, itchy,
irritated, and bumpy.

Eczema often comes and goes, with periods of flare-ups and remission. It
typically appears in children between three months and two years of age.
Some children outgrow it by around four years old, while for others, it may
persist into adulthood.

CAUSES AND PREVENTION

Eczema can be genetic or triggered by environmental factors. It is
often associated with seasonal allergies and asthma. Babies with
eczema are also more likely to develop food allergies.

While there is no guaranteed way to prevent eczema, keeping
your baby’s skin well-moisturized with cream or petroleum jelly
can help. Breastfeeding may also provide some protection against
eczema.

SYMPTOMS

A baby with eczema typically has dry, red, bumpy, and itchy skin. The rash
often appears on the scalp, cheeks, or trunk and can spread to skin folds
such as the elbows, armpits, and fat rolls. During flare-ups, the skin may
become tender, scaly, or even ooze. Symptoms are often worse at night.

Eczema is not contagious, but the compromised skin barrier can make
babies more prone to infections.

TRIGGERS

Eczema flare-ups can be triggered by:

e Soaps, shampoos, and bubble baths,
especially those with fragrance

e Animal dander

e Pollen

e Dry air

e Sweating

e New or unwashed clothing

TREATMENT

There is no cure for eczema, but flare-ups can be managed and soothed by:
e Avoiding known triggers

e Dressing your baby in soft, non-irritating fabrics

e Moisturizing skin twice a day (

e Giving gentle, lukewarm baths 4
e Using mild, unscented soaps

e Patting the skin dry instead of rubbing

e Discussing corticosteroid creams or other medications with your doctor

CONTACT YOUR PROVIDER IF YOU NOTICE \
YELLOW CRUSTING, OOZING, BLISTERS, FEVER,
OR A RASH THAT IS NOT IMPROVING. y

*

