Baby Eczema

WHAT IS BABY ECZEMA?

Eczema is also known as atopic dermatits, and it is a skin condition that occurs when
someone is missing filaggrin in their skin. Filaggrin is a protein that helps the skin to hold
moisture and keep bacteria out, so when it is missing, the skin can become irritated,
itchy, dry, and bumpy. Usually this condition has periods of exacerbation and remission.

This may appear on your child sometime in between three months and two years of age.
This may be outgrown by four years old, or it may last into adulthood.

CAUSES AND PREVENTION

Eczema can be genetic or may be triggered by the environment. It is often
seen with seasonal allergies and asthma. A lot of times, if a baby has eczema,
they are more likely to have food allergies.

There is no sure way of completely preventing eczema, but it can help to keep
them moisturized with a cream or petroleum jelly. It is also thought that
breastfeeding can help to keep eczema at bay as well.

SYMPTOMS

An eczema rash will be dry, a little bumpy, red, and itchy. It may be seen on the scalp,
cheeks, or trunk. It can spread to creases like the elbows, arm pits, and fat rolls. If they
flare up, they can begin to ooze.

Dry, tender skin, redness, itchiness, scaly skin, symptoms might be seen more at night

Eczema is not contagious, but it can make your baby more prone to infections since the
skin barrier is not intact.

TRIGGERS

Eczema flare ups can be triggered by:

e Soaps, shampoos, and bubble baths (especially fragranced)
e Animal dander

¢ Pollen

¢ Dryair

¢ Sweating

e New, unwashed clothes

TREATMENT

There is no cure for eczema, but there are a few things that can be done to
soothe the flare ups.

e Avoid anything that triggers flare ups

¢ Dress your baby in soft, non-irritating fabrics
¢ Moisturize them twice a day

« Give them soothing baths (not hot)

e Use mild, unscented soaps

« Pat them dry

¢ Consider corticosteroids with your doctor

CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR IF YOU NOTICE \
YELLOW CRUSTING, OOZING, BLISTERS, FEVER,
OR A RASH THAT IS NOT IMPROVING. y

