BALANCING WORK
AND YOUR BABY

READ BELOW FOR TIPS ON BALANCING WORK AND
MOTHERHOOD

PLAN EVENTS IN ADVANCE
Returning to work after having a baby can feel overwhelming, ew (5
especially if you worry about missing important moments. 0

One way to ease this transition is to review your family’s

schedule and intentionally plan special activities or outings. Fr 0"
Having meaningful events to look forward to can help you ine
create lasting memories together. u

UTILIZE YOUR SUPPORT SYSTEMS

Your support system may include your partner, family
members, or close friends. Whoever that may be for
you, don’t hesitate to lean on them. Ask for help with
childcare or household tasks so you don’t feel like you
have to manage everything on your own.

PLAN EASY MEALS

Your time is especially valuable during this season
of life, so try not to spend hours preparing elaborate
meals. Choose simple, quick recipes that allow you
to maximize time for bonding with your baby or

getting much-needed rest.

FOLLOW A SCHEDULE

Your schedule does not need to be followed perfectly, but

Cy
having a general structure for your day can be very [Teal Ty ty
helpful. A flexible routine allows you to set aside time for |) x/X/x) x) x) |

i a

what matters most and ensures important tasks and

priorities are accomplished.

SET BOUNDARIES

Your time is especially valuable during this season of
life. Be intentional about spending your free time in
ways that matter most to you. This may require saying

no to certain plans, people, or outside commitments

in order to protect your energy and priorities.

CHOOSE RELIABLE CHILDCARE

You will have greater peace of mind returning to
work when you know your baby is in the care of
someone you trust. Take time to research your

options and interview caregivers to ensure they align 8

with your expectations and values.

TAKE TIME FOR YOURSELF

In the midst of balancing work and motherhood, make sure
to prioritize time for yourself. This season can feel
overwhelming, and caring for your own well-being is
important. Go for a walk, treat yourself to a coffee, take a
relaxing bath, or do something else that helps you recharge

and unwind.

