Gestational Diabetes

WHAT IS GESTATIONAL DIABETES?

Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that a woman can
develop during pregnancy if they don't already have diabetes.
It occurs when the woman's body can't make enough insulin
during pregnancy, leading to an increase of sugar in the blood.
Management of gestational diabetes is important in order to
have a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby.

10ml

RELATED HEALTH PROBLEMS

e Increased risk of high blood pressure during pregnancy
(preeclampsia)

¢ Increased risk of having a large baby (nine pounds or larger)

e Increased risk of premature delivery

e Increased risk of baby having low blood sugar

¢ Increased risk of baby or mom developing diabetes later in
life

GLUCOSE TEST TYPES

Two-step test: also known as the one hour test; You will drink a sweet, orange
flavored drink that contains 50 grams of glucose, then you will wait an hour and
have your blood drawn and tested for glucose. If your levels are high, you will come
back for the second part of the test where you will drink more of the drink and
have your blood tested at intervals.

One-step test: also known as the three hour test; You will have your blood drawn,
drink the sweet drink, then have your blood drawn two more times over two hours.

PREPARING FOR THE TEST

Two-step test: there is no special preparation for this test; ‘ —

you can eat normally beforehand —
One-step test: you will have to avoid eating or drinking —

anything other than water for 8-14 hours before the test

IF THE TEST COMES BACK TOO HIGH...

You may have to undergo additional testing. If you are

diagnosed with gestational diabetes, you will likely talk to a
dietitian about your diet plan. Limit sugar and focus on whole
foods, lean protein, healthy fat, and complex carbohydrates.

Monitor your glucose levels first thing in the morning and an
hour after each meal using a blood glucose monitor. There is
also a medication available if needed.

GLUCOSE MANAGEMENT

You can control blood glucose levels by cutting
back on simple sugars and focusing on complex
carbohydrates. Exercise for five days out of the @
week. Focus on gaining a healthy amount of

weight during your pregnancy.

If you have any questions or concerns, reach out to your provider.
They will be happy to answer any questions that you have.

