¢ UNDERSTANDING y
In Vitro Fertilization AVF)

If you've been struggling with infertility, IWF may be another
option for you.

HOW DOES IT WORK?

During IVF, eggs are fertilized by sperm outside of the body.
The fertilized eggs are then moved into the uterus,
and if one implants, it will result in a pregnancy.

One cycle typically takes 2 weeks,
however you may need more than one cycle.

=| Ko)
| _FIRSTFEWSTEPS |

FIRST FEW STEPS
1. Some women may need to start with ovulation suppression. By taking birth
control, it can suppress natural hormones to ensure IVF occurs at the right
© time.
\ 2. The next step is hormone injections in order to stimulate the ovaries.

Throughout this period, you will need to monitor your hormone levels through
regular blood tests and ultrasounds to determine how effective the
injections are.
©) %. After 8-14 days, you will then receive a trigger shot of either human
chorionic gonadotropin or Lupron in order to help the eggs mature and to
trigger ovulation.

RETRIEVAL FERTILIZATION

The eggs will then be ready for
retrieval 36 hours after the trigger
shot.

The doctor will retrieve them
transvaginally, and it will be done
under IV sedation.

Ensure someone can drive you back

home after the procedure, and be TRANSFER

prepared to relax for the rest of the You will then be started on a progesterone boost in order to
day. prepare your uterine lining for the embryo implantation. The

medication is continued through the first 8-10 weeks of
pregnancy.

aS

eS 3-5 days after the egg fertilization, the embryo transfer occurs,
and the doctor will place the embryos in your uterus.

You are awake for the procedure and can often times watch it

on an ultrasound monitor.

LAST STEP

A positive pregnancy test

You will have a blood test two
weeks after to determine if it was

Ss

successful.

COST

Single cycle: $12,000
There are additional costs for medication and other add-ons, which totals to
$15,000-$25,000.

It often times takes more than one cycle, so keep that in mind when determining

. F 4 cost.
a

16 states currently mandate insurance coverage for infertility related treatments.

Many companies are starting to offer coverage or partial coverage for treatments
too.

Talk with your insurance company or employer to determine if it applies for you.


