JAUNDICE IN NEWBORNS
@

WHAT IS JAUNDICE?

Jaundice happens when there is too much of a substance called bilirubin in

your baby’s body. It can cause a yellow coloring of their skin and eyes. This

substance comes from the normal breakdown of red blood cells. The liver

removes this substance and gets rid of it through feces.

The reason why jaundice commonly occurs in a newborn is because their liver

does not remove the bilirubin as well as an adult's liver. The bilirubin then

builds up in the baby’s body. It usually goes away on it's own, but there are

some cases where treatment is necessary.

2

SIGNS & SYMPTOMS OF JAUNDICE

Yellow skin starting at the face then

moving to the chest/stomach and

legs. Call your provider if they look or act
Yellowing of the whites of their sick, are sleepier than usual, are not
eyes. feeding well, or if their jaundice
Sleepiness progresses.

Fussiness

Trouble feeding

©

DIAGNOSING JAUNDICE IN NEWBORNS

All babies are assessed for this before leaving the hospital. The
doctors can tell based on the skin and eye color. They can also
do a blood test to get precise bilirubin levels. Jaundice is taken

seriously, so these babies are closely monitored.

©

TREATING JAUNDICE IN NEWBORNS

Depending on the cause and severity of the jaundice along with the

baby’s age, treatment is selected. Mild jaundice often goes away on its

own, so doctors instruct parents to just wait a couple of weeks. Some
babies need to be fed more for treatment.

Severe cases are treated with:

Fluids

Phototherapy - a light converts the bilirubin to a form that can be
removed easily by the body

Intravenous immunoglobulin

Exchange blood transfusion for emergency situations

CAUSES OF JAUNDICE IN
NEWBORNS

@

PREMATURE BIRTH, POLYCYTHEMIA, AND
CEPHALOHEMATOMA

If a baby is born early, their liver is even less developed than a term baby. This

makes it very difficult for their body to remove the bilirubin quickly. There can

also be issues if their bilirubin gets too low, so they will be monitored closely
by the healthcare team.

Polycythemia is when the baby has a lot of red blood cells, more than
expected. Cephalohematoma is a large bruise on a baby's head that they can
acquire during delivery. Both of these can also cause jaundice in a newborn.

2

BREASTFEEDING AND BREAST MILK JAUNDICE

Breastfeeding jaundice occurs when the baby is not able to recieve enough
breast milk, whether it is due to breastfeeding problems or because the milk
has not come in yet. These babies should be fed more often.

Breast milk jaundice occurs in some babies when the breast milk they intake

prevents the liver from removing the bilirubin. This usually happens after the
baby is a week old. It is temporary.

©

GENETIC ISSUES

Genetics can cause a baby’s red blood
cells to be more fragile than normal.
When red blood cells break down, they
release bilirubin. This can cause
jaundice if in high amounts.

nis

BLOOD TYPE DIFFERENT FROM MOM

If mom and baby have different blood types, mom's body may make
antibodies that attack the baby’s red blood cells. This can be from ABO
incompatibility (when baby's blood type is A or B and mom's is O) or Rh

incompatibility (when mom is negative and baby is positive.)

CONTACT YOUR PROVIDER WITH ANY QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS

