Breasts
Leaking Milk

WHAT TO KNOW

Is this normal?

Yes, this is acommon thing for breastfeeding moms.
It is temporary for some, and for others it lasts for the
duration of breastfeeding. They may leak or spray
when they are full. This is most common in the
morning or from the unused breast while feeding.

Why does this happen?

Your breasts may be overflowing because they are so full of milk.
Another reason they may be leaking is because of something called a
letdown reflex. This reflex tells your body to release a hormone that
makes your breasts eject milk. It can be triggered by hearing a baby
cry, smelling your baby, or thinking about your baby.

How long will it last?

Many women experience the issue
going away once they get into a
schedule with their baby. This takes
about 6-10 weeks. However, some
have it last for the entire duration of
breastfeeding.

Are there ways to manage this?

Nursing frequently can help to
prevent them from overflowing. You
could also try pumping the milk and
saving it in the fridge or freezer. If the
high pressure is not relieved, an
infection or clogging can occur.

aoe

Contact your provider with questions or concerns.

Breasts
Leaking Milk

MANAGEMENT

Use a breast pump.

Yes, this is acommon thing for breastfeeding moms.
It is temporary for some, and for others it lasts for the
duration of breastfeeding. They may leak or spray 4
when they are full. This is most common in the

morning or from the unused breast while feeding.

TTdTdTt

|} | 1 t

Wear clothes that can hide leaks.

If you Know you are going mid
out, Dres with a lot of layers.

A jacket or sweater can be
used to hide leaks.
Patterned clothes can help
camouflage it as well.

Apply pressure to the breasts.

If you are in public and you can feel
yourself leaking milk, try crossing your
arms over your breasts and pushing
them down to prevent leaking.

Be prepared with a cloth or nursing pads.

Nursing pads can be put inside your bra to

soak up any leaks. This can be done during an a
the day or at night. A cloth can be used to av 2 i
cover the other breast when you are feeding ™ ; = :
your baby. Make sure to change them when NL

they are wet to prevent any infections.

Contact your provider with questions or concerns.

