Breasts
Leaking Milk

WHAT TO KNOW

Is this normal?

Yes, this is acommon thing for breastfeeding moms.
It is temporary for some, and for others it lasts for the
duration of breastfeeding. They may leak or spray
when they are full. This is most common in the
morning or from the unused breast while feeding.

Why does this happen?

Your breasts may be overflowing because they are so full of milk.
Another reason they may be leaking is because of something called a
letdown reflex. This reflex tells your body to release a hormone that
makes your breasts eject milk. It can be triggered by hearing a baby

cry, smelling your baby, or thinking about your baby.

How long will it last?

Many women experience the issue
going away once they get into a
schedule with their baby. This takes
about 6-10 weeks. However, some
have it last for the entire duration of
breastfeeding.

Are there ways to manage this?
Nursing frequently can help to prevent them from
overflowing. You could also try pumping the milk and
saving it in the fridge or freezer. If the high pressure is not
relieved, an infection or clogging can occur. }

; §

Contact your provider with questions or concerns.


Breasts
Leaking Milk

MANAGEMENT

Use a breast pump.
Yes, this is acommon thing for breastfeeding moms.
It is temporary for some, and for others it lasts for the
duration of breastfeeding. They may leak or spray
when they are full. This is most common in the
morning or from the unused breast while feeding.

} i] } |

Wear clothes that
can hide leaks.

If you Know you are going out,

Dress with a lot of layers. A jack
or sweater can be used to hid
leaks. Patterned clothes can
camouflage it as well.

Apply pressure to the breasts.

If you are in public and you can feel
yourself leaking milk, try crossing your
arms over your breasts and pushing

them down to prevent leaking.

Be prepared with a cloth or nursing pads.

Nursing pads can be put inside your bra to
soak up any leaks. This can be done during N
the day or at night. A cloth can be used to AN a4
cover the other breast when you are feeding
your baby. Make sure to change them when —
they are wet to prevent any infections. aS

———

Contact your provider with questions or concerns

