MANAGING
MOM GUILT

WHAT IS MOM GUILT?

We know that you love your child and would not trade the world for
this opportunity with your kid, but that doesn't mean that a new
baby is not a big adjustment. With a new baby, there seem to be so
many more things that need to get done. Sometimes you may feel
inadequate and overwhelmed. These feelings are normal for new
parents from time to time, but in this video we will discuss ways to
minimize these feelings.

Care for yourself first. You may have heard the quote
that says, "You cannot pour into others if your own cup is
empty." This is very true in this case. If you feel stressed or
overwhelmed, take some time for yourself and do
something fun! Be with your friends or have a spa day.
Then you will be better equipped to care for your child.

Ask for help. If you have a partner, ask them if they can
share the load by taking on chores around the house
or helping with the baby. If you have parents or friends
nearby that would help, ask them too!

Surround yourself with supportive people. Sometimes mom
guilt can come from others criticizing your parenting. You do
not have to feel bad about distancing yourself from negative
people.

Pay attention to the other relationships in your life. As a mom,
it can be easy to get caught up in your baby, since they are your
whole world. Try to remember that there are other people in
your life that are important, and make an effort to pay attention
to those relationships too.

Recognize when your thoughts are irrational. Sometimes,
moms can think too deeply into the things they are doing or
not doing for their baby. Moms feel mom guilt in these cases
because they worry that if they take time to do get their nails
done, they are hurting their baby's development. This is not the
case, So recognizing these irrational thoughts will help to
squash the guilt.

Avoid bragging. It's easy for parents to brag about their kids,
since they know all the wonderful things they are doing.
However, this can precipitate mom guilt because one might
feel inadequate after hearing about other kids. Remember that
everyone is different and can move at different paces.

Talk to a therapist. If this guilt is severely interfering with your
day to day life, talk to a therapist. They can help you get back to
a healthy state of mind.

