Newborn Feeding

WHERE TO START?

As anew mom, there are many things that you must figure
out. Feeding your baby is one of them. You can choose
between breastfeeding, bottle feeding, or a mix of both.
You'll need to recognize cues for when your baby is hungry
and figure out how often to feed them. Read below for
more information on newborn feeding.

®

BREASTFEEDING VS BOTTLE FEEDING

It is recommended that babies be exclusively breastfeed for the
first six months of life, then solid food should be introduced while
the baby continues to be breastfed. Breastfeeding is not always
possible or desired for all moms. There are benefits and

disadvantages for both breast and bottle feeding. Talk to your
provider to determine what is best for you and your situation.

HOW OFTEN DO NEWBORNS EAT?

Newborns eat about 8-10 times a day in the first few weeks,
You should feed your baby when they are hungry, which
tends to be every 1-3 hours. You and your baby will soon
get into a routine. You will figure out how to tell when they
are hungry and full. As they get older, they will drink more
milk at each feed but will nurse less frequently.

SIGNS OF HUNGER IN A NEWBORN

ay"
e Moving head from side to side All é ELIT
e Puckering lips Hil B (hit l gl | |
e Putting hands in mouth A #
e Opening mouth l Hi I
e Nuzzling mom’s breast ‘ill il Haldadiesaaitt

e Crying

DO | NEED TO SUPPLEMENT THEIR MILK?

Breast milk has many of the necessary nutrients for
a baby. Vitamin D supplements can be used before
the baby is one year of age. If the mom is
vegetarian and breastfeeding, the baby will need
vitamin B12 supplements. Besides that, breast milk
should cover the rest!

HOW DO I KNOW IF THEY ARE EATING ENOUGH?

If they seem satisfied, gain weight, poop regularly, and have
6-8 wet diapers a day, then they are getting enough to eat.

You should worry if your baby is often fussy or crying and ae
has fewer than 6-8 wet diapers each day. Call your provider

if this is the case. Sy

Contact your provider with any questions or concerns.

