POSTPARTUM
HEMORRHAGE

This is a rare condition, but it is very serious. Postpartum
hemorrhage (PPH) is very heavy bleeding after giving birth. It is
normal to lose some blood during birth, but if you lose too much

with a PPH, it can become very dangerous. Read below for
more information on postpartum hemorrhage.

When does it happen?

If it happens, PPH will usually occur within a day of giving birth, but
it can happen up to 12 weeks after birth. After delivery, the placenta
is also delivered. Your uterus should then contract to help stop the
bleeding where the placenta was attached. If the contractions are
not strong enough, the area will bleed a lot.

Signs and Symptoms

Heavy vaginal bleeding that does not slow or stop
Drop in blood pressure

Dizziness, sleepiness, confusion
Pale skin
Blurry vision

Nausea

Diagnosis

Blood tests

Hematocrit - checks the
percentage of red blood cells
Measuring blood loss

Ultrasound

Pelvic exam

Physical exam ex

Treatment

Provider massages uterus by hand

IV fluids to replace lost volume
Medicine, like Pitocin, to help the uterus clot
Blood transfusion

Hysterectomy to remove uterus

Supplemental oxygen

Removing any remaining placenta
Iron supplements

Contact your provider with any
questions or concerns.

Signs of shock - cool and clammy skin, fast heart rate, feeling faint

Conditions of the Uterus

e Uterine atony - the most common cause of PPH. The uterus is
not contracting well enough to stop the bleeding. This can occur
with the birth of multiples or a very large baby. If you have had
many previous births or were in labor for a long time, this can
happen.

e Uterine rupture - the uterus tears during labor. It can result
from a previous uterine surgery or c-section scar. This is rare.

e Uterine inversion - the uterus turns inside out after birth. This is
very rare.

Conditions of the Placenta

¢ Placental abruption - the placenta separates from the uterus too
early

e Placenta previa - the placenta covers the opening to the cervix

e Placenta accreta - the placenta grows too deep into the uterus
and has trouble separating

e Retained placenta - the placenta is not fully expelled from the
uterus, so the uterus is unable to contract effectively

Conditions During Labor and Birth

¢ C-section

e Medication for inducing labor,
like Pitocin.

¢ Quick labor

¢ Overly long labor

Other Conditions

e Uterine infection

e Preeclampsia

e Gestational hypertension

¢ Bleeding conditions, like disseminated
intravascular coagulation


