POSTPARTUM RECOVERY
FOR A VAGINAL DELIVERY

Postpartum recovery is mainly thought to occur in the first 6-8
weeks following childbirth. Some say that six months to one year is
necessary for full recovery. Read below for more information
about postpartum recovery following a vaginal birth.

Lochia, fifterpains, and Breast Milk

Whether you have a vaginal birth or a cesarean section, you will have

lochia, which is a vaginal discharge with blood and mucous membrane.

It is heaviest in the first ten days postpartum, then it will taper off.
During this time, you will need to use pads for the lochia. You will also
have afterpains from the uterus shrinking down. Additionally, your
breast milk will come in a few days after delivery.

Issues From Vaginal Delivery

During vaginal delivery, the area around the
vagina can tear. This can cause soreness and
pain after the delivery. These can take a while
to heal. There are some things a mom can do to
decrease discomfort.

Recovery Tips For Vaginal Delivery

and stress to the vaginal area. Use

ry

Vaginal delivery causes a lot of stretching é.»

acetaminophen or a heating pad to help. YN U

Spray warm water over the perineal area
before and after peeing instead of using
toilet paper. This helps to prevent the urine
from causing a burning sensation during
peeing.

Ice the perineal area off and on for the first
day after birth.

Witch hazel can be relieving for the perineal
area as well.

Use warm sitz baths to help with the pain.

Do Kegel exercises to help strengthen the
vagina. This can help with urinary
incontinence.

Sleep on your side.

Do not sit or stand for too long.

Contact your provider with
any questions or concerns.


POSTPARTUM RECOVERY
FOR A CESAREAN DELIVERY

Postpartum recovery is mainly thought to occur in the first 6-8
weeks following childbirth. Some say that six months to one year is
necessary for full recovery. Read below for more information
about postpartum recovery following a cesarean birth.

Lochia, fifterpains, and Breast Milk

Whether you have a vaginal birth or a cesarean section, you will have
lochia, which is a vaginal discharge with blood and mucous membrane.
It is heaviest in the first ten days postpartum, then it will taper off.
During this time, you will need to use pads for the lochia. You will also
have afterpains from the uterus shrinking down. Additionally, your
breast milk will come in a few days after delivery.

Issues From Cesarean Delivery

Cesarean delivery requires a longer hospital stay - about 3 to
4 days. After any surgery, the healthcare team wants you to
get up as soon as possible, and a C-section is no different.
They will want you to get up and go to the bathroom in the
first day to get you used to moving around.

Recovery Tips For Vaginal Delivery

¢« Move slowly right after surgery.
e Use acetaminophen and heating pads for any pain.

e Get up and move around as soon as possible to
prevent blood clots.

e Do not exercise or ele any heavy lifting for a few
weeks after the delivery.

e Clean the c-section incision with soap and water Cc

once a day and dry it with a clean cloth.

Eat high-fiber foods to prevent straining when

having a bowel movement. he
¢ Go on walks to help with bowel movements. ae
e Use stool softeners if necessary.

e Avoid touching the incision as it heals even though
it may get itchy. Not touching it will help prevent

infection. -

|

* oe ¢
e3@eoeme' m=:

Contact your provider with
any questions or concerns.

