ChhileCkKUPS

What is a postpartum checkup?

This is an appointment that allows your
provider to see how you are doing after having
your baby. They will examine you and ask you
some questions. You may only have a couple of
appointments, or it may be necessary for you
to have a few more!

When will my first one be?

The first postpartum checkup used to be
scheduled four to six weeks after birth, but
many providers are beginning to schedule
them after three weeks so moms can be
checked in on sooner.

Why are these checkups important?

New moms can be at risk for serious and life-
threatening complications after giving birth.
These checkups allow providers to ensure that
you are recovering properly.

How can | be prepared for my checkup?

Make sure to have a list of any questions or
concerns that you want to mention to your
provider. They will be able to talk with you
more about how to solve any individualized
issues that you may be having!

Contact your provider with any
questions or concerns.

ClrlleCKUIPS
What happens?

A Physical Examination

Your provider will check your weight and

lood pressure. They will also review your diet.
You will get a pelvic examination to check the
size of your uterus. If you had a C-section, your
incision will be checked as well.

Talk About Any Concerns

You will have the chance to talk about bladder
issues, cramping, fatigue, and any other issues.
Your provider will check to make sure none of
these are extremely serious.

Check On Mental Health

A new baby sometimes comes with postpartum
depression, anxiety, or other issues. Your
provider will screen you for these and check to
see if you are bonding well with baby. Try to
be open and honest about your feelings! They
can then suggest therapy or medications to

help you.

Talk About Going Back To Normal Activities

This checkup allows the provider to tell you if
you are ready to start exercising again or
return to other normal activities. You can talk
with them about resuming sex and all of your
birth control options.

Contact your provider with any
questions or concerns.

