Postpartum Psychosis

What is it? and Why co I have it ?

Postpartum psychosis is a severe but reversible mental health condition
that affects women after they give birth, causing them to be at high risk
for harming themselves, dying by suicide or harming their children.

Multiple factors go into why someone may develop postpartum
psychosis

Some risk factors include:

* Family and/or personal history of bipolar disorder

* Family and/or personal history with psychosis

¢ History of schizoaffective disorder or schizophrenia

¢ Discontinuation of psychiatric medications during pregnancy
.° * previous postpartum psychosis

SO Signs & Symptoms
. . It is characterized by:
Questions to ask yourself if you «Extreme confusion

think you may have postpartum e Loss of touch with reality

psychosis e Insomnia
e Disorganized thought processes
e Hallucinations

e Have I been experiencing e Paranoia
hallucinations or changes in e Delusions
perception (such as seeing, ! REY
hearing, or smelling things that <a> é
aren’t there)? a

e Have I been feeling unusually

. . resources
aggressive, agitated, or

violent? e SAMHSA national Helpline (substance
e Have I been feeling paranoid or abuse and mental health service
having irrational or delusional administration): 1-800-662-4357
thoughts or beliefs? ¢ Postpartum support international
e Have I been unable to sleep for helpline: 1-800-944-4773, not for crisis,
extended periods, sometimes call 911 in cases of emergency
for days? e Postpartum psychosis survivors

e Have [had thoughts of facebook
harming myself or my baby, or Melanies Battle, a website dedicated to
made plans to do so? postpartum depression and psychosis

in honor of Melanie Stokes:

https://www.melaniesbattle.org/

if you answered YEs to any
of these questions, Please reach
out to your provider and let you are not alone!

them know !!

You are not alone. Please reach out to
someone you trust or a healthcare provider
for support and treatment.
Incase of emergency or
suicidal thoughts call911o0r .«
988 (suicide hotline) o : oust.


