POSTPARTUM
HEMORRHAGE

Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is heavy bleeding after
giving birth. While some blood loss is normal, excessive
bleeding is very serious and can be dangerous.

When does it happen?

Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) usually occurs within the first 24
hours after birth but can happen up to 12 weeks later. After delivery,
the placenta is expelled, and the uterus should contract to stop
bleeding at the site where the placenta was attached. If the
contractions are not strong enough, excessive bleeding can occur.

Signs and Symptoms

Heavy vaginal bleeding that does not slow or stop

Drop in blood pressure

Signs of shock - cool and clammy skin, fast heart rate, feeling faint
Dizziness, sleepiness, confusion

Pale skin

Blurry vision

Nausea

Diagnosis

Treatment

e Provider manually massages the uterus

e Medications, such as Pitocin, to help the uterus contract (

Blood tests
Hematocrit - checks the

pm

ore Le 7
percentage of red blood cells ~
Measuring blood loss

Ultrasound / = r
Pelvic exam eX / <
Physical exam x

IV fluids to replace lost blood volume

Blood transfusion, if needed ’
Hysterectomy (surgical removal of the uterus) in severe
cases

e Supplemental oxygen

Removal of any remaining placenta
Iron supplements to support recovery

Contact your provider with any
questions or concerns.

Conditions of the Uterus

Uterine atony - the most common cause of PPH. The uterus is
not contracting well enough to stop the bleeding. This can occur
with the birth of multiples or a very large baby. If you have had
many previous births or were in labor for a long time, this can
happen.

Uterine rupture - the uterus tears during labor. It can result
from a previous uterine surgery or c-section scar. This is rare.
Uterine inversion - the uterus turns inside out after birth. This is
very rare.

Conditions of the Placenta

Placental abruption - the placenta separates from the uterus too
early

Placenta previa - the placenta covers the opening to the cervix
Placenta accreta - the placenta grows too deep into the uterus
and has trouble separating

Retained placenta - the placenta is not fully expelled from the
uterus, so the uterus is unable to contract effectively

Conditions During Labor and Birth

C-section

Medication for inducing labor,
like Pitocin.

Quick labor

Overly long labor

Other Conditions

Uterine infection

Preeclampsia

Gestational hypertension

Bleeding conditions, like disseminated
intravascular coagulation


