Postpartum Fitness

If you are wondering about when it is safe to exercise, what
workouts to do, and the benefits of exercising after
pregnancy, read more below!

When to Start Exercisin
Again Af tér Birth

Generally, it is okay to begin walking and kegel
exercises within a couple of days of a vaginal
birth. Start with easy exercises at first, then work
your way up to more intense ones if you desire. If
you had a C-section or birth complications, you
may need to take more time to get back into it.

so How Much To Exercise After Birth

It is recommended to get at least 150

minutes of moderate-intensity exercise per

week, which is about 30 minutes a day, 5

days a week. You can also add a couple of
<5 days of weight training if you’d like!

—
Lf
qk

Benefits of Postpartum Exercise

Postpartum exercise has many benefits!
These include better-quality sleep,
stress relief, and improved mood.

PY

Return to Pre-pregnancy Level

A |

Most women can return to their pre-pregnancy
fitness level by around six weeks after birth, though it
may take longer for some. Be gentle with your body
and watch for warning signs. If you exercised
regularly before and during pregnancy, transitioning
back into workouts is usually easier.

S

Contact your provider with any questions or concerns.

Benefits of
Postpartum Fitness

Postpartum exercise has so many wonderful benefits for a woman’s
mind and body. Read below to learn more about these benefits!

Exercise Helps Stren then
Abdominal Muscles

Pregnancy causes a lot of bodily changes. One of
these big changes is the stretching out of the q
abdominal muscles, known as diastasis recti.

y
These muscles can become very weak
throughout pregnancy, so postpartum exercise is
very helpful in tightening these muscles back up.

Va Higher-Quality Sleep
Te . Exercise can improve sleep quality at any time,
\ Xe not just during pregnancy. This is especially

SF helpful postpartum, when your baby may
disrupt your nights—making the sleep you do

get as restorative as possible.

Aids in Weight Management

It’s normal to have a little extra weight after
giving birth, and that’s okay! Your body needed it
to support your baby’s growth. Postpartum

—— exercise can help you gradually return closer to

F your pre-pregnancy weight.

Improves Mood & Decreases Stress

Postpartum exercise releases “feel-good”

hormones and gives your mind a healthy °
outlet. Both can improve your mood and o@ e
reduce stress, helping you feel better

equipped to handle your day.

Contact your provider if you have any questions or concerns.

