Postpartum Fitness

If you are wondering about when it is safe to exercise,
what workouts to do, and the benefits of exercising after
pregnancy, read more below!

Generally, it is okay to begin walking and kegel
exercises within a couple of days of a vaginal
birth. Start with easy exercises at first, then work
your way up to more intense ones if you desire. If
you had a C-section or birth complications, you

may need to take more time to get back into it.
of moderate intensity workouts. This equally

about 30 minutes for 5 days a week. You

( could also add in a couple days of weight
“training if you feel like it!

ee if

The recommendation is at least 150 minutes

Remember that you are recovering from a big
event! Don’t push yourself too hard if you are
experiencing issues. Some signs to stop include
vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain, and other fluid.
Check in with your doctor before proceeding.

Postpartum exercise has so many benefits!
A couple of examples of these many
benefits are getting higher quality sleep,
stress relief, and an increased mood.

PY

n

You should be able to return to your pre-pregnancy level
by around six weeks after birth, but it can be longer for
some women. Just make sure to be easy on your body
and look for those warning signs. If you worked out
regularly before and during pregnancy, it will likely be a
smoother transition to ease back into exercise.

S

Contact your provider with any questions or concerns.

Benefits of
Postpartum Fitness

Postpartum exercise has so many wonderful benefits for a woman’s
mind and body. Read below to learn more about these benefits!

Pregnancy causes a lot of bodily changes. One of
these big changes is the stretching out of the
abdominal muscles, known as diastasis recti. qd
These muscles can become very weak through
pregnancy, so postpartum exercise is very helpful
in tightening these muscles back up.

> Exercise is always beneficial for getting higher-quality
I, a sleep, even outside of pregnancy. This is a huge

\ se benefit during the postpartum time because your baby

Ne FA Amay keep you up some nights, so whatever sleep you
can get should be of the highest quality!

Postpartum exercise can help to decrease postpartum
depression in many women. Sleep gives your body more
opportunity to work on rebalancing your hormones, which
is a big factor in postpartum depression.

It is likely that you are left with a little extra weight
after giving birth, and that’s okay! Your body needed
to do that in order to help your baby grow. Exercise
the postpartum period can help you eventually help
you get back near your pre-pregnancy weight.

rN,
Exercise in the postpartum period releases
postp p ( SAD,

feel-good hormones and also gives your mind 9
a place to escape to. These can both help to e

—_, sua
put you in a better mood and decrease your 3
stress levels, leaving you in a better place
overall to go about your day.

Contact your provider if you have any questions or concerns.

