RETAINED PLACENTA

Directly after birthing your baby, the placenta is
still in your uterus. The final stage of labor is when
the placenta is expelled. There are some cases
where this doesn't naturally happen, and this
results in something called a retained placenta. A
retained placenta can cause some issues. Read
below for more information about it.

WHAT IS A RETAINED PLACENTA?

The placenta is the organ that provides oxygen and nutrients to your
baby throughout the pregnancy. Following pregnancy, the placenta is
no longer needed and must be expelled. Your body is supposed to
naturally carry out this process, but there are instances where it
doesn't happen. If the placenta has not been expelled within 30
minutes after delivery, it is considered a retained placenta.

WHY IS IT CONCERNING?

The retained placenta is essentially a foreign object, so your body is
going to have some complications. There is an increased risk of
heavy bleeding. The reason for this is that the uterus is unable to
contract and shrink. It can lead to a postpartum hemorrhage,
which is very serious.

There is also a risk for infection because your body is trying to fight
against this object that should no longer be there. Infection can
also be a very serious complication.

CAUSES OF A RETAINED PLACENTA

A retained placenta can occur when the placenta develops in
an abnormal way, such as growing into the wall of the uterus
or gets stuck in the uterine wall. It can also occur when the
placenta gets trapped behind the cervix or when the uterus
stops contracting and cannot push the placenta out.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS

Other than the absence of a placenta following
delivery, symptoms include fever, foul-smelling @
vaginal discharge, pain, and heavy bleeding. 2

Fragments of the placenta may be expelled, but
the entire organ must be removed.

HOW CAN THE PLACENTA BE REMOVED?

Medications may be used to help the uterus contract in order to
deliver the placenta. Breastfeeding can sometimes help the uterus
contract as well because it releases hormones.

More invasive methods include a provider manually removing the
placenta or emergency surgery. Each of these carry their own risks.

CONTACT YOUR PROVIDER WITH QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS.

