VITAMIN K SHOT

for newborns

When your baby is first born, a lot is done to them. Their vital signs are taken,
they are weighed and measured, and they may get a bath. These are all done in
order to make sure your baby is healthy. Your newborn may also be administered
a vitamin K shot, a hepatitis B vaccine, and erythromycin ointment. Read below
for more information on the vitamin K shot.

What Does Vitamin K Do? wnat

Vitamin K is a nutrient that helps blood clot. Clotting
is necessary to stop bleeding that may occur. This
vitamin is also important for bone health. Older kids VITAMIN
and adults are able to get vitamin K from food, like K
leafy greens, meat, eggs, and dairy. However, babies
do not have much vitamin K in their body at birth.
Because of this, they are at risk for bleeding.

What If My Baby Doesn't
Get The Vitamin K Shot?

Without recieving vitamin K at birth, a baby can develop a bleeding

problem called vitamin K deficient bleeding (VKDB). This can result in
bleeding in nearly every organ of the body, which can be fatal. It can
cause brain bleeds that lead to brain damage. This is a risk up until
about 6 months of age, when a baby can begin getting vitamin K from
the food they eat.

What Is The Shot Like?

It is just one shot containing vitamin K that is given in a
newborn baby's thigh. It is given within 6 hours of birth.
The baby’s liver stores extra vitamin K and releases it
slowly over the next 6 months of life. This one shot
helps to protect your baby from VKDB. This shot has
been reccomended for newborns at birth by
healthcare providers since 1961.

fe

14 “
Ly
//
a,

Can My Baby Get Enough
Vitamin K From Breast Milk?

Breast milk does contain some vitamin K, but
unfortunately it is not enough to prevent VKDB.
Babies won't be able to intake enough vitamin K until
they begin eating solid foods at 6 months of age.

Signs of VKDB

There are not always warning signs, but some may include:

e Bleeding from the umbilical cord or nose e Easy brusing
e Bloody stool e Pale color
¢ Blood in vomit e Seizures or irritability

HEPATITIS B VACCINE

for newborns

When your baby is first born, a lot is done to them. Their vital signs are taken,
they are weighed and measured, and they may get a bath. These are all done in
order to make sure your baby is healthy. Your newborn may also be administered
a vitamin K shot, a hepatitis B vaccine, and erythromycin ointment. Read below
for more information on the hepatitis B vaccine.

What Is Hepatitis B?

Hepatitis B is a liver infection caused by the Hepatitis B virus.
People with this disease may have no symptoms, a mild illness,
or very ill. People may also carry this virus for their entire life
and have liver issues later on. It is spread when blood, semen,
or other bodily fluids infected with the virus enter the body of
an uninfected person. If a pregnant person has hepatitis B, their
baby can become infected during birth.

When Does My Baby Need
The Vaccine?

This vaccine is usually a series of three doses, one at

birth, one at 1-2 months of age, and one at 6-18
months of age. If the newborn's mother carries
hepatits B, the baby must get the vaccine within 12
hours of birth. If the mother does not carry the virus,
the baby jsut needs to be vaccinated within 24 hours

Why Is This Shot Recommended?

People may have the virus but have no
symptoms, meaning they can spread it
without knowing. The hepatitis B vaccine
allows for long-term immunity. A
vaccinated baby will be protected during
their childhood and adult years.

When To Delay The Vaccine

The hepatitis B vaccine is delayed
for babies who weigh less than 4
pounds and 7 ounces at birth whose
mothers do not carry the virus. It is
also not recommended for a very
sick child.

Caring For Your Newborn
After The Vaccine

Your baby may have fever, soreness, swelling, and redness at
the injection site. Call your doctor to check and see if you can
give them a medication to help. Contact your provider for
any questions or concerns.

ERYTHROMYCIN
EYE OINTMENT

for newborns

When your baby is first born, a lot is done to them. Their vital signs are taken,
they are weighed and measured, and they may get a bath. These are all done in
order to make sure your baby is healthy. Your newborn may also be administered
a vitamin K shot, a hepatitis B vaccine, and erythromycin ointment. Read below
for more information on erythromycin eye ointment.

What Is This Eye Ointment?

This eye ointment is erythromycin and S
it is an antibiotic that helps to protect (“

your newborn’s vision. Within 24 hours
of their birth, this ointment will be -~ ~~
applied to their lower eyelids. It @ e
doesn't need to be washed off. ~
Eventually, it wears away on its own.

What Does It Protect From?

This eye ointment protects from serious eye infections caused by
gonorrhea, chlamydia, and other common bacteria. Moms who have a

sexually transmitted infection can pass it to their newborn during birth.
Though you may not have an STI, this is still a routine procedure just
because some moms do not get tested for an STI or may not know if
they have one. It is also common for people to have one but not have
any symptoms, so it is best just to be safe!

Is It Really Necessary?

Without this ointment, a mom can pass the STI bacteria

to her baby, which may lead to a very serious eye

infection. If untreated, the eye infection can cause ¥
blindness. This type of treatment has been used since

the 1880s. It can also prevent other types of eye

infections from other causes, so it would not hurt to

use it for your baby!

Does The Ointment Blur My
Baby's Vision?

It can blur their vision for a little bit, but newborns do AIL,
not have clear vision to begin with. Most babies are

nearsighted at birth. Once the ointment wears away

and you take your baby home, you can gaze into

their clear eyes for hours!

Contact your provider with
any questions or concerns!

